README.md, before:


# Facility 443

## Site Overview
    
Facility 443 is a fully immersive choose your own adventure horror game. 
You wake up in a room you don’t recognize daze and confused and its your choices that will determine if you get out alive or not. While you explore the environment you can pick up items that will help you determine what’s going on and help you break out of the facility. 
Do you focus on getting answers and figuring out what’s going on or do you get out as fast as possible? With danger behind every corner, footsteps chasing you and a menacing voice counting down to an event that you’re not sure you want to stick around to see one wrong decision could end it all. 

    
![Responsive](/documentation/testing/responsive.jpg)

Live site [Live Site](https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/).


## UX

For the design of the game I wanted it to stick to the horror theme of the game, I wanted each state of the game to have an image representing the setting that the story is describing so that the player can fully immerse themselves in the experience and picture themselves in the scene. I want the images to have lots of dark patches such as a partially open doorway on a dark corridor to give the feeling that anything could come from any direction at any time. 
For the text and buttons Im keeping them simple so they don’t distract from the story imagery. 

### User Stories
 
- As a user I want a game that is easy to pick up and play
- As a user I want the UI to be simple and intuitive, so I don’t need instructions on how to play
- As a user I want to be scared or creeped out
- As a user I want the storyline to be easy to follow and understand
- As a user I want the decisions I can make to be easily understandable


### Colour Scheme

 Because the game is a horror game I wanted to stick to that theme for the colour scheme, so use a lot of dark colours. For the text I want to keep the colours simple so they don’t distract from the imagery on the screen. For the story text I used a white colour so it stands out from the background and is easy to read and for the buttons I used the same blue colour that’s in the loading screen. 

 ![Color Scheme](/documentation/testing/color_pallete.jpg)


### Typography
    
For the Typography I wanted to play on the facility side of the game, so I focused on finding something with clean lines that looked clinical. 

For the landing page titles I used a thick bold font to make them stand out on the page.

![Title Fonts](/documentation/testing/title_fonts.jpg)


For the rest of the text throughout the game I went with a light weight simple font. I wanted something that was easy to read and wouldnt be too distracting from the story.
![TExt Fonts](/documentation/testing/text_fonts.jpg)

### Wireframes

My first step for this project was to sketch out a basic plan for what I wanted the game screen to look like. I decided to use Balsamiq to create some rough wireframes so that I could refer back to them throughout the design process.

#### Load Screen Wireframes

![Load page wireframes](/documentation/wireframes/loadScreen_Wireframe.jpg)

#### Game Screen Wireframes

![Load page wireframes](/documentation/wireframes/gameScreen_Wireframe.jpg)

## Features

The aim of this project was to make a fully immersive choose your own adventure game. I wanted to incorporate both visual and audio elements to help bring the story to life and make the player feel like they are living through the story.

### Game Loading Screen

For the landing page I wanted to keep the design simple because I wanted the story of the game to be a mystery. For the background I used a dimly lit hallway with open doors leading into dark rooms, I wanted to give the impression that the player doesnt know whats awaiting around each corner. 

![Game Loading Screen](/documentation/testing/load_screen.jpg)

### Game Pages

For the game pages I wanted the focus to be on the story so I kept them simple and minimal. Each one has a background that reflects the environment that the storyline is portraying.

![Game Pages](/documentation/testing/game_pages.jpg)

For the storyline text I enclosed it into a container which a semi transparent background so that you could still see the image in the background but you could also read the text easily. 

![Game Paragraph](/documentation/testing/game_paragraph.jpg)

For the options button on the page I wanted to encorporate the blue colour that is used throughout the story and also on the loading screen background. To do this I added a thin border to each button and also styled the text in the same colour. 
For the hover state I changed the background colour from black to a semi transparent version of the game theme colour. 

![Game Buttons](/documentation/testing/game_buttons.jpg)

When the player gets the option to search different areas I wanted a screen to pop up with the options. For the design I used a black box with the items inside, I used a dark backgrounds so that the inventory items stood out. 

![Inventory Items](/documentation/testing/items_image.jpg)

### Features Left to Implement

have ideas on what you'd like to add in the future? add them here!! assessors LOVE seeing future concepts!

## Technologies Used

Throughout the project I used a variety of technologies.

- I used HTML and CSS to create and style the website.
- I used Javascript to create the interactive elements of the website
- I used github to create a repository for my project.[Github Website](https://github.com/)
- I used gitpod as the development environment.[Gitpod Website](https://gitpod.io/)
- I used github pages to host the website [Github Pages Website](https://github.com/)
- I used Balsamiq to design my wireframes [Balsamiq Website](https://balsamiq.com/)

## Testing

"For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file."

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows: 
 - In the [GitHub repository](https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/), navigate to the Settings tab 
 - From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
 - The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://github.com/Claire221/Facility-443)

### Local Deployment

In order to make a local copy of this project, you can clone it. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:

- `git clone https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/`

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/)


### Content

list out any URLs or links where you might've borrowed a snippet of code, or element

### Media

list out any URLs for images/videos/audios you've borrowed from online (Markdown Table works best here!)

​

Commit message:

Add information to README document

README.md, after:


# Facility 443

## Site Overview
    
Facility 443 is a fully immersive choose your own adventure horror game. 
You wake up in a room you don’t recognize daze and confused and its your choices that will determine if you get out alive or not. While you explore the environment you can pick up items that will help you determine what’s going on and help you break out of the facility. 
Do you focus on getting answers and figuring out what’s going on or do you get out as fast as possible? With danger behind every corner, footsteps chasing you and a menacing voice counting down to an event that you’re not sure you want to stick around to see one wrong decision could end it all. 

    
![Responsive](/documentation/testing/responsive.jpg)

Live site [Live Site](https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/).


## UX

For the design of the game I wanted it to stick to the horror theme of the game, I wanted each state of the game to have an image representing the setting that the story is describing so that the player can fully immerse themselves in the experience and picture themselves in the scene. I want the images to have lots of dark patches such as a partially open doorway on a dark corridor to give the feeling that anything could come from any direction at any time. 
For the text and buttons Im keeping them simple so they don’t distract from the story imagery. 

### User Stories
 
- As a user I want a game that is easy to pick up and play
- As a user I want the UI to be simple and intuitive, so I don’t need instructions on how to play
- As a user I want to be scared or creeped out
- As a user I want the storyline to be easy to follow and understand
- As a user I want the decisions I can make to be easily understandable


### Colour Scheme

 Because the game is a horror game I wanted to stick to that theme for the colour scheme, so use a lot of dark colours. For the text I want to keep the colours simple so they don’t distract from the imagery on the screen. For the story text I used a white colour so it stands out from the background and is easy to read and for the buttons I used the same blue colour that’s in the loading screen. 

 ![Color Scheme](/documentation/testing/color_pallete.jpg)


### Typography
    
For the Typography I wanted to play on the facility side of the game, so I focused on finding something with clean lines that looked clinical. 

For the landing page titles I used a thick bold font to make them stand out on the page.

![Title Fonts](/documentation/testing/title_fonts.jpg)


For the rest of the text throughout the game I went with a light weight simple font. I wanted something that was easy to read and wouldnt be too distracting from the story.
![TExt Fonts](/documentation/testing/text_fonts.jpg)

### Wireframes

My first step for this project was to sketch out a basic plan for what I wanted the game screen to look like. I decided to use Balsamiq to create some rough wireframes so that I could refer back to them throughout the design process.

#### Load Screen Wireframes

![Load page wireframes](/documentation/wireframes/loadScreen_Wireframe.jpg)

#### Game Screen Wireframes

![Load page wireframes](/documentation/wireframes/gameScreen_Wireframe.jpg)

## Features

The aim of this project was to make a fully immersive choose your own adventure game. I wanted to incorporate both visual and audio elements to help bring the story to life and make the player feel like they are living through the story.

### Game Loading Screen

For the landing page I wanted to keep the design simple because I wanted the story of the game to be a mystery. For the background I used a dimly lit hallway with open doors leading into dark rooms, I wanted to give the impression that the player doesnt know whats awaiting around each corner. 

![Game Loading Screen](/documentation/testing/load_screen.jpg)

### Game Pages

For the game pages I wanted the focus to be on the story so I kept them simple and minimal. Each one has a background that reflects the environment that the storyline is portraying.

![Game Pages](/documentation/testing/game_pages.jpg)

For the storyline text I enclosed it into a container which a semi transparent background so that you could still see the image in the background but you could also read the text easily. 

![Game Paragraph](/documentation/testing/game_paragraph.jpg)

For the options button on the page I wanted to encorporate the blue colour that is used throughout the story and also on the loading screen background. To do this I added a thin border to each button and also styled the text in the same colour. 
For the hover state I changed the background colour from black to a semi transparent version of the game theme colour. 

![Game Buttons](/documentation/testing/game_buttons.jpg)

When the player gets the option to search different areas I wanted a screen to pop up with the options. For the design I used a black box with the items inside, I used a dark backgrounds so that the inventory items stood out. 

![Inventory Items](/documentation/testing/items_image.jpg)

### Features Left to Implement

I would like to add a feature where players could design their character at the beginning of the game. They would be able to chose their gender, basic appearance ect which would then change some of the narrative in the game to reflect their character. Currently I have kept narrative gender neutral to try and reflect all players so the game uses gender neutral pronouns and descriptions, But this would change depending on how the player created their character.
Also when the character is looking through the PC at the documentation relating to them with their information on the information would then change to describe the character that they have created.
I would also like to add a play mode where you can choose to play as either the person trying to escape from the facility or the guard trying to track them down. For the story I wanted to portray that both characters feel like they are the good guy but the other character sees them as the villain so I think that being able to play as either side would give you a look into why that particular character sees themselves as the good guy and the opposing character the villain. 


## Technologies Used

Throughout the project I used a variety of technologies.

- I used HTML and CSS to create and style the website.
- I used Javascript to create the interactive elements of the website
- I used github to create a repository for my project.[Github Website](https://github.com/)
- I used gitpod as the development environment.[Gitpod Website](https://gitpod.io/)
- I used github pages to host the website [Github Pages Website](https://github.com/)
- I used Balsamiq to design my wireframes [Balsamiq Website](https://balsamiq.com/)

## Testing

"For all testing, please refer to the [TESTING.md](TESTING.md) file."

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows: 
 - In the [GitHub repository](https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/), navigate to the Settings tab 
 - From the source section drop-down menu, select the **Main** Branch, then click "Save".
 - The page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found [here](https://github.com/Claire221/Facility-443)

### Local Deployment

In order to make a local copy of this project, you can clone it. In your IDE Terminal, type the following command to clone my repository:

- `git clone https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/`

Alternatively, if using Gitpod, you can click below to create your own workspace using this repository.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://claire221.github.io/Facility-443/)


### Content

For the glitch effect on the game landing page I followed a youtube video that can be found [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CtmHKGX754s)

### Media
Throughout the game I used various different background images.
- [Landing Page Background](https://www.oneyoufeed.net/dark-hallways/)
- [Cupboard Background](https://free3d.com/3d-model/horror-lab-2547.html)
- [Lab Coat](https://www.turbosquid.com/3d-models/3d-lab-coat-1808406)
​- [Hangar Background](https://www.deviantart.com/axeman3d/art/Vehicle-Hangar-300754670)
​- [Lab Background](https://americasfrontlinenews.com/post/are-randomized-controlled-trials-really-the-gold-standard)
​- [Lift Background](https://www.regenbogen.de/nachrichten/regional/baden-pfalz/20180725/hausmeister-verpruegelt)
​- [Padlock](https://shopsonline.cheapsales2022.ru/category?name=3d%20lock)
​- [Protien Bar](https://www.turbosquid.com/Search/3D-Models/protein)
​- [Viewing Area Background](https://choice.npr.org/index.html?origin=https://www.npr.org/transcripts/522783564)
​- [Ward Background](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/first-death-from-coronavirus-recorded-in-northern-ireland-1.4206780)
- [Atrium Page Background](https://www.nfpa.org/-/media/Images/Blog-Images/Blog-Post-Attachments/NFPA-Today/Atrium.ashx?h=400&w=800&la=en&hash=D209DBDBD58742A3FAEBE382605DF342)
- [Corridor Page Background](https://www.turbosquid.com/pl/3d-models/hallway-doors-3d-model/918331)
